Question ID f1bfbed3

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Inferences rT.
Ideas

ID: f1bfbed3

Marta Coll and colleagues’ 2010 Mediterranean Sea biodiversity census reported approximately 17,000 species, nearly
double the number reported in Carlo Bianchi and Carla Morri’s 2000 census~—a difference only partly attributable to the
description of new invertebrate species in the interim. Another factor is that the morphological variability of microorganisms
is poorly understood compared to that of vertebrates, invertebrates, plants, and algae, creating uncertainty about how to
evaluate microorganisms as species. Researchers’ decisions on such matters therefore can be highly consequential. Indeed,
the two censuses reported similar counts of vertebrate, plant, and algal species, suggesting that

Which choice most logically completes the text?

Coll and colleagues reported a much higher number of species than Bianchi and Morri did largely due to the inclusion of
A. invertebrate species that had not been described at the time of Bianchi and Morri’s census.

some differences observed in microorganisms may have been treated as variations within species by Bianchi and Morri
B. but treated as indicative of distinct species by Coll and colleagues.

Bianchi and Morri may have been less sensitive to the degree of morphological variation displayed within a typical
C. species of microorganism than Coll and colleagues were.

the absence of clarity regarding how to differentiate among species of microorganisms may have resulted in Coll and
D. colleagues underestimating the number of microorganism species.

ID: f1bfbed3 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale
Choice B is the best answer because it presents the conclusion that most logically completes the text's discussion of the
different counts of species in the Mediterranean Sea. The text states that Coll and colleagues reported almost double the
number of species that Bianchi and Morri reported in their study ten years earlier. According to the text, this difference can
only be partly attributed to new invertebrate species being described in the years between the two studies, which means
there must be an additional factor that made Coll and colleagues’ count so much higher than Bianchi and Morri’s count. The
text goes on to explain that factor: researchers have a relatively poor understanding of microorganisms’ morphological
variability, or the differences in microorganisms’ structure and form. This poor understanding makes it hard to classify
microorganisms by species and means that researchers’ decisions about classifying microorganisms can have a large effect
on the overall species counts that researchers report. Additionally, the text says that the two censuses reported similar
numbers of vertebrate, plant, and algal species, which means that the difference in overall species did not come from
differences in those categories. Given all this information, it most logically follows that Coll and colleagues may have treated
some of the differences among microorganisms as indicative of the microorganisms being different species, whereas
Bianchi and Morri treated those differences as variations within species, resulting in Coll and colleagues reporting many
more species than Bianchi and Morri did.

Choice A is incorrect because the text explicitly addresses this issue by stating that the description of new invertebrate
species in the years between the two studies can explain only part of the difference in the number of species reported by the
studies. The focus of the text is on explaining the difference between Coll and colleagues’ count and Bianchi and Morri’s
count that cannot be accounted for by the inclusion of invertebrate species that had not been described at the time of
Bianchi and Morri’s study. Choice C is incorrect because nothing in the text suggests that Bianchi and Morri may have been
less sensitive to how much the form and structure of microorganisms vary within the same species than Coll and colleagues
were. If Bianchi and Morri had been less sensitive to within-species variation than Coll and colleagues were, Bianchi and
Morri would likely have reported more species than Coll and colleagues did, since less sensitivity to within-species variation
would lead researchers to classify as different species microorganisms that more sensitive researchers would classify as
variations within the same species. The text indicates, however, that Bianchi and Morri reported far fewer species than Coll
and colleagues did; since the text also excludes other explanations for this difference, it suggests that in fact Bianchi and
Morri were more sensitive to within-species variation than Coll and colleagues were, leading Bianchi and Morri to report
fewer overall species. Choice D is incorrect because the text is focused on explaining why Coll and colleagues reported
many more species than Bianchi and Morri did, and an underestimate of the number of microorganism species by Coll and
colleagues would not explain that difference—it would suggest, in fact, that the difference in the number of species should
have been even larger.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID 87aa7bab

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and BBO
Ideas Details

ID: 87aa7bab

A common assumption among art historians is that the invention of photography in the mid-nineteenth century displaced the
painted portrait in the public consciousness. The diminishing popularity of the portrait miniature, which coincided with the
rise of photography, seems to support this claim. However, photography’s impact on the portrait miniature may be
overstated. Although records from art exhibitions in the Netherlands from 1820 to 1892 show a decrease in the number of
both full-sized and miniature portraits submitted, this trend was established before the invention of photography.

Based on the text, what can be concluded about the diminishing popularity of the portrait miniature in the nineteenth
century?

A. Factors other than the rise of photography may be more directly responsible for the portrait miniature’s decline.

Although portrait miniatures became less common than photographs, they were widely regarded as having more artistic
B. merit.

C. The popularity of the portrait miniature likely persisted for longer than art historians have assumed.

D. As demand for portrait miniatures decreased, portrait artists likely shifted their creative focus to photography.

ID: 87aa7bab Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale

Choice A is the best answer. The text says that the impact of photography on the portrait miniature might be "overstated," as
some records show a decrease in the number of portrait miniatures before the invention of photography. From this, we can
conclude that factors other than the rise of photography may be more directly responsible for the portrait miniature’s decline.

Choice B is incorrect. The text never discusses the "artistic merit" of either art form. Choice C is incorrect. The text never
suggests that the portrait miniature was popular for longer than historians thought—if anything, it suggests that the portrait
miniature started losing its popularity earlier than historians thought. Choice D is incorrect. The text never suggests that
portrait painters shifted to become photographers.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID d73a908a

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and BBO
Ideas Details

ID: d73a908a

Believing that living in an impractical space can heighten awareness and even improve health, conceptual artists Madeline
Gins and Shusaku Arakawa designed an apartment building in Japan to be more fanciful than functional. A kitchen counter
is chest-high on one side and knee-high on the other; a ceiling has a door to nowhere. The effect is disorienting but
invigorating: after four years there, filmmaker Nobu Yamaoka reported significant health benefits.

Which choice best states the main idea of the text?

Although inhabiting a home surrounded by fanciful features such as those designed by Gins and Arakawa can be
A. rejuvenating, it is unsustainable.

Designing disorienting spaces like those in the Gins and Arakawa building is the most effective way to create a physically
B. stimulating environment.

C. As a filmmaker, Yamaoka has long supported the designs of conceptual artists such as Gins and Arakawa.

Although impractical, the design of the apartment building by Gins and Arakawa may improve the well-being of the
D. building's residents.

ID: d73a908a Answer

Correct Answer: D

Rationale

Choice D is the best answer because it most accurately states the main idea of the text. According to the text, conceptual
artists Gins and Arakawa have designed an apartment building that is disorienting because of several unconventional
elements, such as uneven kitchen counters and “a door to nowhere.” The text goes on to suggest that there may be benefits
to this kind of design because filmmaker Yamaoka lived in the apartment building for four years and reported health
benefits. Thus, although the design is impractical, it may improve the well-being of the apartment building's residents.

Choice A is incorrect. Although the text mentions that Yamaoka lived in the apartment for four years, it doesn’t address how
long someone can beneficially live in a home surrounded by fanciful features or whether doing so can be sustained. Choice
B is incorrect. Although the text mentions the potential benefits of living in a home with disorienting design features, it
doesn't suggest that this is the most effective method to create a physically stimulating environment. Choice C is incorrect
because the text refers to Yamaoka to support the claim that Gins and Arakawa’s apartment building design may be
beneficial, but the text doesn't indicate that Yamaoka supports the designs of other conceptual artists.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID d748c3fd

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Inferences
Ideas Be

ID: d748c3fd

In her 2021 article “Throwaway History: Towards a Historiography of Ephemera,” scholar Anne Garner discusses John
Johnson (1882-1956), a devoted collector of items intended to be discarded, including bus tickets and campaign
pamphlets. Johnson recognized that scholarly institutions considered his expansive collection of ephemera to be worthless
—indeed, it wasn’t until 1968, after Johnson's death, that Oxford University’s Bodleian Library acquired the collection, having
grasped the items’ potential value to historians and other researchers. Hence, the example of Johnson serves to____

Which choice most logically completes the text?

demonstrate the difficulties faced by contemporary historians in conducting research at the Bodleian Library without
A. access to ephemera.

represent the challenge of incorporating examples of ephemera into the collections of libraries and other scholarly
B. institutions.

lend support to arguments by historians and other researchers who continue to assert that ephemera holds no value for
C. scholars.

illustrate both the relatively low scholarly regard in which ephemera was once held and the later recognition of
D. ephemera’s possible utility.

ID: d748c3fd Answer

Correct Answer: D

Rationale

Choice D is the best answer. Johnson collected “ephemera,” or things that are meant to be thrown away. Scholars thought
his collection was worthless to them, then later realized that it was potentially valuable. This suggests that scholars went
from disregarding ephemera to recognizing their usefulness.

Choice A is incorrect. This inference isn’t supported. The text tells us that the Bodleian Library acquired Johnson's large
collection of ephemera back in 1968, so we can assume that contemporary historians conducting research there do have
access to that collection. Choice B is incorrect. This inference isn’t supported. The text tells us that “Oxford University’s
Bodleian Library acquired the collection,” but it never suggests that it was a challenge to do so. Choice C is incorrect. This
inference isn’t supported. The text actually suggests the opposite: the example of Johnson’s collection lends support to
arguments that ephemera does hold value for scholars.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID a15b3219

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of rT.
Ideas Evidence

ID: a15b3219

Municipalities’ Responses to Inquiri
about Potential Incentives for Firn

1,300
1,200
1,100
1,000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100

)

Number of municipalities

G announcement before election
M@ announcement after election

In the United States, firms often seek incentives from municipal governments to expand to those municipalities. A team of
political scientists hypothesized that municipalities are much more likely to respond to firms and offer incentives if
expansions can be announced in time to benefit local elected officials than if they can’t. The team contacted officials in
thousands of municipalities, inquiring about incentives for a firm looking to expand and indicating that the firm would
announce its expansion on a date either just before or just after the next election.

Which choice best describes data from the graph that weaken the team’s hypothesis?

A large majority of the municipalities that received an inquiry mentioning plans for an announcement before the next
A. election didn’t respond to the inquiry.

The proportion of municipalities that responded to the inquiry or offered incentives didn’t substantially differ across the
B. announcement timing conditions.
Only around half the municipalities that responded to inquiries mentioning plans for an announcement before the next
C. election offered incentives.

Of the municipalities that received an inquiry mentioning plans for an announcement date after the next election, more
D. than 1,200 didn’t respond and only around 100 offered incentives.

ID: a15b3219 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale

Choice B is the best answer. The lighter bars show what happened when the announcement was to come before the
election, and the darker bars show what happened when the announcement was to come after the election. For all three of
the outcomes, the light and dark bars are virtually the same, demonstrating that the announcement timing didn’t actually
make a difference.

Choice A is incorrect. This accurately describes some data from the graph, but it doesn’t weaken the hypothesis. It doesn't
include the “announcement after election” data for comparison. Choice C is incorrect. This accurately describes some data
from the graph, but it doesn’t weaken the hypothesis. It doesn’t include the “announcement after election” data for
comparison. Choice D is incorrect. This accurately describes some data from the graph, but it doesn’t weaken the
hypothesis. It doesn’t include the “announcement before election” data for comparison.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID ed314256

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and rT.
Ideas Details

ID: ed314256

The most recent iteration of the immersive theater experience Sleep No More, which premiered in New York City in 2011,
transforms its performance space—a five-story warehouse—into a 1930s-era hotel. Audience members, who wander through
the labyrinthine venue at their own pace and follow the actors as they play out simultaneous, interweaving narrative loops,
confront the impossibility of experiencing the production in its entirety. The play’s refusal of narrative coherence thus hinges
on the sense of spatial fragmentation that the venue’s immense and intricate layout generates.

What does the text most strongly suggest about Sleep No More's use of its performance space?

The choice of a New York City venue likely enabled the play's creators to experiment with the use of theatrical space in a
A. way that venues from earlier productions could not.

Audience members likely find the experience of the play disappointing because they generally cannot make their way
B. through the entire venue.

The production’s dependence on a particular performance environment would likely make it difficult to reproduce exactly
C. in a different theatrical space.

Audience members who navigate the space according to a recommended itinerary will likely have a better grasp of the
D. play’s narrative than audience members who depart from that itinerary.

ID: ed314256 Answer

Correct Answer: C

Rationale

Choice C is the best answer. The text says that the production's use of its large, winding space has a very specific effect on
the audience. Given that the space itself is so important to creating this effect, it would be difficult to reproduce the
production in a different space.

Choice A is incorrect. The fact that the venue is in New York City isn’t connected to the experimental nature of the
performance. It’s the size of the venue, not its location in New York, that affects the theatrical experience. Choice B is
incorrect. The text never suggests that audience members are disappointed because they can’t see the entire production. In
fact, it suggests that that’s an important part of the experience. Choice D is incorrect. The text doesn’t mention a
recommended itinerary for audience members.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID 8c1be131

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and BBO
Ideas Details

ID: 8c1be131

During the World War II era, some Mexican American women adopted a striking new look called pachuca style. They wore
altered men’s jackets or zoot suits (wide-legged, long-coated suits) and dramatic makeup, and they combed their hair into
high, rounded shapes. Some people criticized pachuca style, saying it was dangerous and women should dress traditionally.
But historians see things differently. They see pachuca style as a form of rebellion against the era’s rigid social expectations
for women. They say that it showed a desire for self-expression and freedom on the part of women who adopted the style.

According to the text, how do historians view pachuca style?

They think that pachuca style was such a popular trend that it continues to influence fashion in the United States to the
A. present day.

They think that pachuca style was a way for some Mexican American women to express themselves and resist strict
B. social expectations.

They think that pachuca style was celebrated because it enabled some Mexican American women to show their support
C. for the United States during World War II.

They think that pachuca style was similar to other fashion trends that different groups of women adopted in the same
D. period.

ID: 8c1be131 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale

Choice B is the best answer because it presents a statement about how historians view pachuca style that is supported by
the text. The text first describes the distinctive pachuca style of dress adopted by some Mexican American women during
World War Il, saying that some criticized it and asserted that women should dress traditionally. The text then goes on to
contrast this position with that of historians, who "see things differently": according to these historians, the pachuca style
showed a wish for freedom and self-expression, and it acted as a kind of rebellion against what society expected of women
at the time. Therefore, according to the text, historians think that the pachuca style was a way for Mexican women to express
themselves and resist strict social expectations.

Choice A is incorrect because the text explicitly describes the pachuca style as a distinctive look adopted during the World
War Il era. It does not indicate that the pachuca style influences fashion in the United States in the present day. Choice C is
incorrect because the text does not indicate that Mexican American women wore the pachuca style to show support for the
United States during World War Il; rather, the style was a means of self-expression and rebellion against social expectations.
Choice D is incorrect because the text does not compare the pachuca style to other fashion trends: the pachuca style is the
only style mentioned.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID 92c2564d

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and BBO
Ideas Details

ID: 92c2564d

Utah is home to Pando, a colony of about 47,000 quaking aspen trees that all share a single root system. Pando is one of the
largest single organisms by mass on Earth, but ecologists are worried that its growth is declining in part because of grazing
by animals. The ecologists say that strong fences could prevent deer from eating young trees and help Pando start thriving
again.

According to the text, why are ecologists worried about Pando?

A. It isn’t growing at the same rate it used to.
B. It isn’t producing young trees anymore.
C. It can’t grow into new areas because it is blocked by fences.

D. Its root system can’t support many more new trees.

ID: 92c2564d Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale

Choice A is the best answer because it presents an explanation that is directly stated in the text for why ecologists are
worried about Pando. The text states that Pando is a colony of about 47,000 quaking aspen trees that represents one of the
largest organisms on Earth. According to the text, ecologists are worried that Pando’s growth is declining, partly because
animals are feeding on the trees. In other words, the ecologists are worried that Pando isn’t growing at the same rate it used
to.

Choice B is incorrect. Rather than indicating that Pando isn’t producing young trees anymore, the text reveals that Pando is
indeed producing young trees, stating that those trees can be protected from grazing deer by strong fences. Choice C is
incorrect because the text states that fences can be used to prevent deer from eating Pando’s young trees, not that Pando
itself can’t grow in new areas because it’s blocked by fences. Choice D is incorrect because the text offers no evidence that
Pando’s root system is incapable of supporting new trees or is otherwise a cause of worry for ecologists.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID 22e4d633

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of BBO
Ideas Evidence

ID: 22e4d633

Although many transposons, DNA sequences that move within an organism’s genome through shuffling or duplication, have
become corrupted and inactive over time, those from the long interspersed nuclear elements (LINE) family appear to remain
active in the genomes of some species. In humans, they are functionally important within the hippocampus, a brain structure
that supports complex cognitive processes. When the results of molecular analysis of two species of octopus—an animal
known for its intelligence—were announced in 2022, the confirmation of a LINE transposon in Octopus vulgaris and Octopus
bimaculoides genomes prompted researchers to hypothesize that that transposon family is tied to a species’ capacity for
advanced cognition.

Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researchers’ hypothesis?

The LINE transposon in O. vulgaris and O. bimaculoides genomes is active in an octopus brain structure that functions
A. similarly to the human hippocampus.

B. The human genome contains multiple transposons from the LINE family that are all primarily active in the hippocampus.

A consistent number of copies of LINE transposons is present across the genomes of most octopus species, with few
C. known corruptions.

O. vulgaris and O. bimaculoides have smaller brains than humans do relative to body size, but their genomes contain
D. sequences from a wider variety of transposon families.

ID: 22e4d633 Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale

Choice A is the best answer. The text says that LINE transposons are important in the human hippocampus, which supports
complex cognition. If the LINE transposon found in octopuses is active in a similar part of their brain, that would suggest
that LINE transposons support complex cognition in octopuses too, which in turn supports the hypothesis that LINE
transposons are linked to advanced cognition in general.

Choice B is incorrect. This choice doesn't support the hypothesis. It doesn't include anything about how LINE transposons
function in species other than humans. Choice C is incorrect. This choice doesn’t support the hypothesis. It doesn’t include
anything about how the LINE transposon in octopuses might support advanced cognition. Choice D is incorrect. This choice
doesn't support the hypothesis. It doesn’t include anything about how the LINE transposon in octopuses might support
advanced cognition.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID 458b4a11

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and rT.
Ideas Details

ID: 458b4a11

To understand how temperature change affects microorganism-mediated cycling of soil nutrients in alpine ecosystems, Eva
KaStovska et al. collected plant-soil cores in the Tatra Mountains at elevations around 2,100 meters and transplanted them
to elevations of 1,700-1,800 meters, where the mean air temperature was warmer by 2°C. Microorganism-mediated nutrient
cycling was accelerated in the transplanted cores; crucially, microorganism community composition was unchanged,
allowing KaStovska et al. to attribute the acceleration to temperature-induced increases in microorganism activity.

It can most reasonably be inferred from the text that the finding about the microorganism community composition was
important for which reason?

It provided preliminary evidence that microorganism-mediated nutrient cycling was accelerated in the transplanted
A. cores.

It suggested that temperature-induced changes in microorganism activity may be occurring at increasingly high
B. elevations.

C. It ruled out a potential alternative explanation for the acceleration in microorganism-mediated nutrient cycling.

It clarified that microorganism activity levels in the plant-soil cores varied depending on which microorganisms
D. comprised the community.

ID: 458b4a11 Answer

Correct Answer: C

Rationale

Choice C is the best answer because it accurately describes why the finding about the microorganism community
composition was important. The text describes an experiment by Eva KaStovska and her team in which they collected plant-
soil cores at one elevation and transplanted them to sites at a lower elevation, where the mean air temperature was warmer.
KaStovska and her team observed that microorganism-mediated nutrient cycling was accelerated in the transplanted cores
and that "crucially, microorganism community composition was unchanged," which allowed the team to attribute the
acceleration to changes in microorganism activity brought about by the difference in temperature. This strongly implies that
the team wouldn't have been able to make that attribution otherwise, meaning that a change in microorganism composition
represented another possible explanation for the acceleration that had to be ruled out.

Choice A is incorrect. Although the text says microorganism-mediated cycling of soil nutrients increased in the transplanted
cores, this is unrelated to what's important about the finding that the microorganism composition didn’t change—that it
allowed the team to attribute the change in activity solely to the change in temperature. Choice B is incorrect. Although the
text compares activity in one core at two different elevations, the text doesn’t address changes in activity at various
elevations over time. Choice D is incorrect. Although different microorganisms likely exhibit different levels of activity, the
text indicates that there was no change in microorganism composition, and there is nothing in the text about different
microorganisms having different activity levels.
Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID 3543e6e2

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and goo
Ideas Details

ID: 3543e6e2

The following text is from Jane Austen's 1811 novel Sense and Sensibility. Elinor lives with her younger sisters and her

mother, Mrs. Dashwood.
Elinor, this eldest daughter, whose advice was so effectual, possessed a strength of understanding, and coolness of
judgment, which qualified her, though only nineteen, to be the counsellor of her mother, and enabled her frequently to
counteract, to the advantage of them all, that eagerness of mind in Mrs. Dashwood which must generally have led to
imprudence. She had an excellent heart;—her disposition was affectionate, and her feelings were strong; but she knew
how to govern them: it was a knowledge which her mother had yet to learn; and which one of her sisters had resolved
never to be taught.

According to the text, what is true about Elinor?

A. Elinor often argues with her mother but fails to change her mind.
B. Elinor can be overly sensitive with regard to family matters.
C. Elinor thinks her mother is a bad role model.

D. Elinor is remarkably mature for her age.

ID: 3543e6e2 Answer

Correct Answer: D

Rationale

Choice D is the best answer because it provides a detail about Elinor that is established in the text. The text indicates that
although Elinor is “only nineteen,” she gives good advice and exhibits such a high level of understanding and judgment that
she serves as “the counsellor of her mother.” Thus, Elinor is mature beyond her years.

Choice A is incorrect because it isn’t supported by the text: although the text says that Elinor advises her mother and often
counteracts her mother’s impulses, there’s no mention of Elinor arguing with her mother or failing to change her mother’s
mind. Choice B is incorrect because it isn’t supported by the text: although the text mentions that Elinor has strong feelings,
it doesn’t indicate that she’s excessively sensitive when it comes to family issues. Choice C is incorrect because it isn't
supported by the text: there’s no mention of what Elinor thinks about her mother and no suggestion that she thinks her
mother is a bad role model. Because she’s described as having “an excellent heart,” Elinor likely doesn’t think ill of her
mother.

Question Difficulty: Easy
Question ID 75e07a4d

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of goo
Ideas Evidence

ID: 75e07a4d

Sample of Food Items from Gemini Mission

Menus
Food item Day | Meal
Sugar cookie cubes 1 B
Chicken and vegetables| 2 B
Shrimp cocktail 4 C
Hot cocoa 3 A

To make sure they got the nutrition they needed while in space, the astronauts of NASA’s Gemini missions were given menus
for three meals a day (meals A, B, and C) on a four-day rotating schedule. Looking at the sample of food items from these
menus, a student notes that on day 1, the menu included

Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

A. shrimp cocktail for meal B.
B. hot cocoa for meal C.
C. sugar cookie cubes for meal B.

D. chicken and vegetables for meal A.

ID: 75e07a4d Answer

Correct Answer: C

Rationale

Choice C is the best answer because it most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement. The table
shows that on day 1, the menu for NASA’s Gemini missions included sugar cookie cubes for meal B.

Choice A is incorrect because according to the table, shrimp cocktail was served on day 4, not day 1; moreover, the item was
served for meal C, not meal B, as this choice claims. Choice B is incorrect because according to the table, hot cocoa was
served on day 3, not on day 1; moreover, the item was served for meal A, not for meal C, as this choice claims. Choice D is
incorrect because according to the table, chicken and vegetables were served on day 2, not on day 1; moreover, the item was
served for meal B, not for meal A, as this choice claims.

Question Difficulty: Easy
Question ID 1ba5ad7a

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and rT.
Ideas Details

ID: 1ba5ad7a

Many literary theorists distinguish between fabula, a narrative’s content, and syuzhet, a narrative’s arrangement and
presentation of events. In the film The Godfather Part II, the fabula is the story of the Corleone family, and the syuzhet is the
presentation of the story as it alternates between two timelines in 1901 and 1958. But literary theorist Mikhail Bakhtin
maintained that fabula and syuzhet are insufficient to completely describe a narrative—he held that systematic
categorizations of artistic phenomena discount the subtle way in which meaning is created by interactions between the
artist, the work, and the audience.

Which choice best states the main idea of the text?

Literary theorist Mikhail Bakhtin argued that there are important characteristics of narratives that are not fully
A. encompassed by two concepts that other theorists have used to analyze narratives.

Literary theorist Mikhail Bakhtin claimed that meaning is not inherent in a narrative but is created when an audience
B. encounters a narrative so that narratives are interpreted differently by different people.

The storytelling methods used in The Godfather Part I] may seem unusually complicated, but they can be easily
C. understood when two concepts from literary theory are utilized.

Narratives that are told out of chronological order are more difficult for audiences to understand than are narratives
D. presented chronologically.

ID: 1ba5ad7a Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale

Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately states the main idea of the text. The text begins by explaining that
many literary theorists rely on the concepts of fabula (a narrative’s content) and syuzhet (a narrative’s arrangement and
presentation of events) and illustrates these concepts by explaining how they can be applied to the film The Godfather Part II.
The text then discusses how Mikhail Bakhtin, a literary theorist, argued that fabula and syuzhet can’t fully describe a
narrative, since systematic categorizations such as these fail to account for all the ways in which interactions between the
artist, the work, and the audience produce meaning. Thus, the main idea is that Bakhtin argued that there are important
characteristics of narratives that are not fully encompassed by two concepts that other theorists have used to analyze
narratives.

Choice B is incorrect because according to the text, Mikhail Bakhtin believed that meaning was created through the
interactions of the artist, narrative, and audience, not simply through the interaction between the audience and narrative;
moreover, the text doesn't address whether Bakhtin focused on the ways in which different people interpret narratives
differently. Choice C is incorrect. Although the text implies that the storytelling methods used in The Godfather Part II are
complicated, it discusses the film only to illustrate how the concepts of fabula and syuzhet may be applied to a narrative. The
film’s storytelling methods aren't the primary focus of the text. Choice D is incorrect. The text discusses The Godfather Part
Il, whose narrative doesn't adhere to a single chronological order, only to illustrate the concepts of fabula (a narrative’s
content) and syuzhet (a narrative's arrangement and presentation of events). The primary focus of this text isn’t the structure
of this film or of other narratives that are told out of chronological order; moreover, the text doesn’t consider whether such
structures make it harder for audiences to understand narratives.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID 602b47c7

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and BBO
Ideas Details

ID: 602b47c7

Biologists have predicted that birds’ feather structures vary with habitat temperature, but this hadn't been tested in mountain
environments. Ornithologist Sahas Barve studied feathers from 249 songbird species inhabiting different elevations—and
thus experiencing different temperatures—in the Himalaya Mountains. He found that feathers of high-elevation species not
only have a greater proportion of warming downy sections to flat and smooth sections than do feathers of low-elevation
species, but high-elevation species’ feathers also tend to be longer, providing a thicker layer of insulation.

Which choice best states the main idea of the text?

Barve’s investigation shows that some species of Himalayan songbirds have evolved feathers that better regulate body
A. temperature than do the feathers of other species, contradicting previous predictions.

Barve found an association between habitat temperature and feather structure among Himalayan songbirds, lending new
B. support to a general prediction.

Barve discovered that songbirds have adapted to their environment by growing feathers without flat and smooth
C. sections, complicating an earlier hypothesis.

The results of Barve's study suggest that the ability of birds to withstand cold temperatures is determined more strongly
D. by feather length than feather structure, challenging an established belief.

ID: 602b47c7 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale

Choice B is the best answer. The text describes how Barve found an association between habitat temperature and feather
structure among Himalayan songbirds, which supports the general prediction that birds’ feather structures vary with habitat
temperature.

Choice A is incorrect. Barve's study isn’t said to contradict previous predictions. In fact, the study supports the prediction
described in the first sentence, which is that birds’ feather structures vary with habitat temperature. Choice C is incorrect.
Barve’s study isn’t said to “complicate an earlier hypothesis.” In fact, the study supports the earlier prediction described in the
first sentence, which is that birds’ feather structures vary with habitat temperature. Choice D is incorrect. The text doesn’t
compare the importance of feather length and feather structure, and it doesn’t say that Barve's study challenges any
established beliefs. In fact, the study supports the prediction described in the first sentence, which is that birds’ feather
structures vary with habitat temperature.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID 702eb7e3

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of rT.
Ideas Evidence

ID: 702eb7e3

= Economic Policy Uncertainty in
= the United Kingdom, 2005-2010
ae)
= 200
o
=
me 150
=a
£2 100
ee
Ss I
ES
-¥ 50
g
z ° & o <l
BO SP KS GH KP
Year

@ tax and public spending pplicy

G trade policy

m general economic policy

High levels of public uncertainty about which economic policies a country will adopt can make planning difficult for
businesses, but measures of such uncertainty have not tended to be very detailed. Recently, however, economist Sandile
Hlatshwayo analyzed trends in news reports to derive measures not only for general economic policy uncertainty but also for
uncertainty related to specific areas of economic policy, like tax or trade policy. One revelation of her work is that a general
measure may not fully reflect uncertainty about specific areas of policy, as in the case of the United Kingdom, where general
economic policy uncertainty _____

Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to illustrate the claim?

aligned closely with uncertainty about tax and public spending policy in 2005 but differed from uncertainty about tax and
A. public spending policy by a large amount in 2009.

B. was substantially lower than uncertainty about tax and public spending policy each year from 2005 to 2010.

reached its highest level between 2005 and 2010 in the same year that uncertainty about trade policy and tax and public
C. spending policy reached their lowest levels.
was substantially lower than uncertainty about trade policy in 2005 and substantially higher than uncertainty about trade
D. policy in 2010.

ID: 702eb7e3 Answer

Correct Answer: D

Rationale

Choice D is the best answer because it uses data from the graph to effectively illustrate the text’s claim about general
economic policy uncertainty in the United Kingdom. The graph presents values for economic policy uncertainty in tax and
public spending policy, trade policy, and general economic policy in the UK from 2005 to 2010. The graph shows that in 2005,
the value for general economic policy uncertainty (approximately 90) was substantially lower than the value for uncertainty
about trade policy specifically (approximately 160). It also shows that in 2010, the value for general economic policy
uncertainty (approximately 120) was substantially higher than the value for uncertainty about trade policy (approximately
70). The substantial differences between these values in 2005 and 2010 support the claim that a general measure may not
fully reflect uncertainty about specific areas of policy.

Choice A is incorrect because the graph shows that the level of general economic policy uncertainty was similar to the level
of uncertainty about tax and public spending policy in both 2005 (with values of approximately 90 and 100, respectively) and
2009 (with values of approximately 80 and 75, respectively). Choice B is incorrect because the graph shows that general
economic policy uncertainty was higher than uncertainty about tax and public spending policy in 2006, 2007, and 2009, not
that it was lower each year from 2005 to 2010. Choice C is incorrect because the graph shows that general economic policy
uncertainty reached its highest level in 2010, which was when uncertainty about tax and public spending policy also reached
its highest level, not its lowest level.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID 29f5c8c2

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of BBO
Ideas Evidence

ID: 29f5c8c2

Fish whose DNA has been modified to include genetic material from other species are known as transgenic. Some
transgenic fish have genes from jellyfish that result in fluorescence (that is, they glow in the dark). Although these fish were
initially engineered for research purposes in the 1990s, they were sold as pets in the 2000s and can now be found in the wild
in creeks in Brazil. A student in a biology seminar who is writing a paper on these fish asserts that their escape from
Brazilian fish farms into the wild may have significant negative long-term ecological effects.

Which quotation from a researcher would best support the student's assertion?

“In one site in the wild where transgenic fish were observed, females outnumbered males, while in another the numbers
A. of females and males were equivalent.”

“Though some presence of transgenic fish in the wild has been recorded, there are insufficient studies of the impact of
B. those fish on the ecosystems into which they are introduced.”

“The ecosystems into which transgenic fish are known to have been introduced may represent a subset of the
C. ecosystems into which the fish have actually been introduced.”

“Through interbreeding, transgenic fish might introduce the trait of fluorescence into wild fish populations, making those
D. populations more vulnerable to predators.”

ID: 29f5c8c2 Answer

Correct Answer: D

Rationale

Choice D is the best answer because this quotation would best support the student’s assertion that the escape of transgenic
fish from Brazilian fish farms into the wild may have significant negative long-term ecological effects. The text explains that
transgenic fish have DNA that includes genetic material from other species, that some transgenic fish have genes from
jellyfish that make them glow in the dark, and that glow-in-the-dark transgenic fish can now be found in the wild in Brazilian
creeks. The quotation indicates why the escape of these fish may have negative long-term ecological effects: glow-in-the-
dark transgenic fish might introduce fluorescence into wild fish populations by breeding with wild fish, causing wild fish to
glow in the dark and thereby allowing predators to prey on them much more easily.

Choice A is incorrect because this quotation doesn’t mention any negative effects of the introduction of fluorescent
transgenic fish into the wild. The quotation merely compares the ratio of females to males at two sites in the wild where
transgenic fish have been observed. Choice B is incorrect because this quotation doesn’t support the idea that the escape of
fluorescent transgenic fish from Brazilian fish farms may have significant negative long-term ecological effects. Rather, the
quotation suggests that more research is needed to understand the effects. Choice C is incorrect because this quotation
supports the idea that transgenic fish may be present in more ecosystems than has been observed; it doesn’t address
whether the presence of fluorescent transgenic fish affects these ecosystems.
Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID 1281dfd5

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of rT.
Ideas Evidence

ID: 1281dfd5

Number of Lizard Species by Average
Percent of Maximal Speed Used Whe1
Pursuing Prey or Escaping Predators

Number of lizard species
OrFNMNWHE UI® ~1 CO OO

DPD OP PD YO DY. HS
SKK LK LY Ky”

Percent of maximal speed

G@ escaping@ pursuing

It may seem that the optimal strategy for an animal pursuing prey or escaping predators is to move at maximal speed, but
the energy expense of exploiting full speed capacity can disfavor such a strategy even in escape contexts, as evidenced by
the fact that

Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the text?

most lizard species use about the same percentage of their maximal speed when escaping predation as they do when
A. pursuing prey.

B. multiple lizard species move at an average of less than 90% of their maximal speed while escaping predation.

more lizard species use, on average, 90%-100% of their maximal speed while escaping predation than use any other
C. percentage of their maximal speed.

D. at least 4 lizard species use, on average, less than 100% of their maximal speed while pursuing prey.

ID: 1281dfd5 Answer

Correct Answer: B
Rationale

Choice B is the best answer because it describes data from the graph that complete the text’s discussion of lizard species’
use of maximal speed when escaping predators. According to the text, moving at maximal speed (the highest speed
possible) requires so much energy that it is not always an effective strategy for animals, even when they are escaping
predators. The graph displays data on the average percent of maximal speed used by lizard species while either escaping
predators or pursuing prey. The graph categorizes the data for both pursuing and escaping by the number of species using
30%-39% of maximal speed, 40%-49% of maximal speed, 50%-59% of maximal speed, 60%-69% of maximal speed, 70%-
79% of maximal speed, 80%-89% of maximal speed, and 90%-100% of maximal speed, respectively. In the graph, there is at
least one species in each of the following percent categories for maximal speed while escaping predators: 50%-59%, 60%—-
69%, 70%-79%, and 80%-89%. Thus, the data in the graph show that multiple lizard species move at an average of less than
90% of their maximal speed while escaping predation.

Choice A is incorrect because the data in the graph isn’t organized in such a way that a comparison of the percentage of
maximal speed used when escaping predation with the percentage used when pursuing prey is possible at the level of
individual species. Choice C is incorrect. It is true that in the graph, the percent category with the largest number of species
using maximal speed while escaping predators is 90%-100% (8 species total). However, these data don’t complete the text,
which is concerned instead with how animals are discouraged from using maximal speed even when escaping predators
because of the amount of energy required to use it. Choice D is incorrect because these data from the graph pertain to
maximal speed while pursuing prey and therefore don’t complete the text's discussion of lizard species’ use of maximal
speed when escaping predators.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID d83c3d54

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of BBO
Ideas Evidence

ID: d83c3d54

Characteristics of the Banks of th
Provo River Downstream of the
Jordanelle Dam

140,000
120,000
100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
)

Area (square meters)

1987 1993 2006
Year

H grass covel

GO bare soil

The Jordanelle Dam was built on the Provo River in Utah in 1992. Earth scientist Adriana E. Martinez and colleagues tracked
changes to the environment on the banks of the river downstream of the dam, including how much grass and forest cover
were present. They concluded that the dam changed the flow of the river in ways that benefited grass plants but didn’t
benefit trees.

Which choice best describes data from the graph that support Martinez and colleagues’ conclusion?

The lowest amount of grass cover was approximately 58,000 square meters, and the highest amount of forest cover was
A. approximately 75,000 square meters.

There was more grass cover than forest cover in 1987, and this difference increased dramatically in 1993 and again in
B. 2006.

There was less grass cover than bare soil in 1987 but more grass cover than bare soil in 1993 and 2006, whereas there
C. was more forest cover than bare soil in all three years.

D. Grass cover increased from 1987 to 1993 and from 1993 to 2006, whereas forest cover decreased in those periods.
ID: d83c3d54 Answer

Correct Answer: D

Rationale

Choice D is the best answer because it describes data from the graph that support Martinez and colleagues’ conclusion that
the Jordanelle Dam led to changes that benefited grass plants but not trees. The graph shows characteristics of the banks
of the Provo River downstream of the Jordanelle Dam in three different years—1987, 1993, and 2006. Specifically, the graph
shows the amount of grass cover, bare soil, and forest cover in those years. The text indicates that the Jordanelle Dam was
built in 1992, meaning that the data from the graph for 1987 reflect conditions before the dam was built, whereas the data
for 1993 and 2006 reflect conditions after the dam was built. The data show that grass cover increased substantially from
1987 to 1993 and again from 1993 to 2006. The data also show that forest cover declined over those periods. Together,
these data support Martinez and colleagues’ conclusion that the dam was beneficial for grass plants but not for trees—grass
cover increased significantly after the dam was built, while forest cover declined.

Choice A is incorrect. Although it is true that, in the graph, the lowest value for grass cover is approximately 58,000 square
meters and the highest value for forest cover is approximately 75,000 square meters, both values are from 1987, before the
Jordanelle Dam was built in 1992. Therefore, this information alone cannot support Martinez and colleagues’ conclusion
about changes in grass and tree cover following the construction of the dam. Choice B is incorrect because it presents an
inaccurate description of data from the graph. The graph shows that there was more forest cover than grass cover in 1987,
not that there was more grass cover than forest cover that year. Choice C is incorrect because, while it accurately reflects
data from the graph when it compares grass cover and forest cover to bare soil, these data alone cannot support Martinez
and colleagues’ conclusion that the dam led to changes that benefited grass plants but not trees. An increase in grass cover
relative to bare soil following the construction of the dam might indicate that the dam benefited grass plants, but the fact
that there was more forest cover than bare soil in all three years doesn’t indicate that the dam failed to benefit trees.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID ca5a3fb4

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Inferences
Ideas Be

ID: ca5a3fb4

The practice of logging (cutting down trees for commercial and other uses) is often thought to be at odds with forest
conservation (the work of preserving forests). However, a massive study in forest management and preservation spanning
700,000 hectares in Oregon’s Malheur National Forest calls that view into question. So far, results of the study suggest that
forest plots that have undergone limited logging (the careful removal of a controlled number of trees) may be more robust
than plots that haven't been logged at all. These results, in turn, suggest that___

Which choice most logically completes the text?

A. logging may be useful for maintaining healthy forests, provided it is limited.
B. other forest management strategies are more effective than limited logging.

C. as time passes, it will be difficult to know whether limited logging has any benefits.

D. the best way to support forest health may be to leave large forests entirely untouched.

ID: ca5a3fb4 Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale

Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s discussion of the potential effects of logging on
forest conservation. The text begins by stating that logging practices are often thought of as being contrary to forest
conservation efforts. Then, the text presents the results of a research study examining the effect of limited logging practices
on specific forest plots, finding that the plots with limited logging may be "more robust" (healthier) than the plots that hadn't
been logged at all. Given these results, it follows that logging may be a useful practice for maintaining healthy forests if it is
practiced in a limited way.

Choice B is incorrect because the study referenced in the text only provides information on limited logging as a potential
forest management strategy. There is no information in the text about how other forest management strategies support
forest conservation efforts. Therefore, the text does not support the assertion that other forest management strategies are
more successful than limited logging. Choice C is incorrect because the text presents a research study with findings that
specific plots of forest with limited logging may be more robust than the forest plots that were not logged. Rather than
suggesting that it is hard to know whether limited logging might be beneficial, the text suggests that the practice could be
useful in forest conservation efforts. Choice D is incorrect. The text discusses the results of a research study that compares
the health of forest plots with limited logging to forest plots that were not logged. It does not take a position on the best way
to support forest health but rather presents a research study with findings that question conventionally held thoughts
regarding the practice of logging.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID 98d0a5d7

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of rT.
Ideas Evidence

ID: 98d0a5d7

Almost all works of fiction contain references to the progression of time, including the time of day when events in a story
take place. In a 2020 study, Allen Kim, Charuta Pethe, and Steven Skiena claim that an observable pattern in such references
reflects a shift in human behavior prompted by the spread of electric lighting in the late nineteenth century. The researchers
drew this conclusion from an analysis of more than 50,000 novels spanning many centuries and cultures, using software to
recognize and tally both specific time references—that is, clock phrases, such as 7 a.m. or 2:30 p.m.—and implied ones, such
as mentions of meals typically associated with a particular time of day.

Which finding from the study, if true, would most directly support the researchers’ conclusion?

Novels published after the year 1800 include the clock phrase 10 a.m. less often than novels published before the year
A. 1800 do.

Novels published after 1880 contain significantly more references to activities occurring after 10 p.m. than do novels
B. from earlier periods.

Among novels published in the nineteenth century, implied time references become steadily more common than clock
C. phrases as publication dates approach 1900.

D. The time references of noon (12 p.m.) and midnight (12 a.m.) are used with roughly the same frequency in the novels.

ID: 98d0a5d7 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale
Choice B is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would most directly support the researchers’
conclusion that an observable pattern in time references in novels reflects a shift in human behavior prompted by the spread
of electric lighting in the late nineteenth century. If novels published after 1880 contain significantly more references to
activities occurring after 10 p.m. than novels from earlier periods do, this would suggest a change in human behavior and
daily routines enabled by the availability of electric lighting. Before electric lighting—which provided illumination more easily
than other available forms of light—many activities ceased after nightfall, so references to late-night activities would be less
common in earlier novels. An increase in such references after 1880 would align with the researchers’ conclusion, reflecting
an increase in late-night activities made possible by electric lighting.

Choice A is incorrect because a decrease in references to 10 a.m. after the year 1800 would not support the researchers’
conclusion involving a shift in human behavior prompted by the spread of electric lighting toward the end of the 1800s. The
time of 10 a.m. is in the morning and, in most places, characterized by daylight, so a change in references to that time would
not be clearly linked to the impact of electric lighting. Choice C is incorrect because while an increase in implied time
references relative to clock phrases in nineteenth-century novels could suggest a change in writing style or conventions, it
does not directly support the conclusion involving a shift in human behavior prompted by the spread of electric lighting. The
text indicates that the researchers’ conclusion is based on the content of the time references themselves, not the phrasing
used. Choice D is incorrect. If references to noon and midnight are used with roughly the same frequency in all the novels
analyzed by the researchers, this would reflect a lack of change in human behavior with regard to time and therefore would
not support the researchers’ conclusion involving a shift in human behavior that occurred in response to the spread of
electric lighting.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID cf956802

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and goo
Ideas Details

ID: cf956802

When fashion designer Lloyd Henri Kiva New opened his store in Scottsdale, Arizona, in 1945, he quickly became known for
creating delicately crafted leather goods, like belts and hats. He was perhaps most renowned for his colorful handbags,
which he made by hand using a long and painstaking process. As he gained more customers, New began using sewing
machines and other tools to help him produce bags more efficiently, though he continued to handcraft the crucial details that
made each bag unique.

Based on the text, what would have been the most likely consequence if New had not begun using sewing machines?

A. He would have been unable to ensure that each bag included unique, handcrafted details.
B. He would have struggled to meet the increasing demand for his bags.
C. He would have had to individually design each bag he produced.

D. He would not have been able to generate as much interest in his bags.

ID: cf956802 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale

Choice B is the best answer because it presents the most likely consequence if New had not begun using sewing machines.
The text states that New gained new customers and that sewing machines allowed him to make bags more efficiently, or in
less time than he could when sewing by hand. It’s reasonable to conclude that if New hadn't reduced the time it took to make
each bag by starting to use sewing machines, it would have been hard for him to keep up with the increased demand.

Choice A is incorrect because the text indicates that New added unique, handcrafted details to his bags before he started
using sewing machines and continued to do so after he started using them. Choice C is incorrect because the text doesn't
suggest that individually designing each bag would have been a consequence of not using sewing machines, since New was
already designing unique details for each bag before he started using sewing machines and continued to do so after he
started using them. Choice D is incorrect because the text indicates that people were already interested in New’s bags
before he started using sewing machines. Rather than allowing New to generate more interest in his bags, sewing machines
helped New keep up with the interest that had already grown.

Question Difficulty: Easy
Question ID 95388117

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of BBO
Ideas Evidence

ID: 95388117

Land Area Covered by Native Flowering Plants at a Site in Antarctica

Area covered in 2009 (in | Area covered in 2018 (in Percent increase in area
Species square meters) square meters) covered from 2009 to 2018
Deschampsia
. 1,230 1,576 28%

antarctica
Colobanthus

. . 6.9 10.7 55%
quitensis

The only flowering plant species native to Antarctica, Colobanthus quitensis and Deschampsia antarctica grow in places
where the earth remains free of ice for much of the year. Botanist Niccoletta Cannone wondered how the warming of
Antarctica’s climate in recent years had affected these species, so she visited a site in Antarctica, first in 2009 and later in
2018, to count the number of plants growing there. Cannone found that the area of land covered by the two species had
significantly expanded during the nine-year period. While both species likely benefited from warming temperatures,
Colobanthus quitensis ____

Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the comparison?

A. suppressed the growth of Deschampsia antarctica, which covered a smaller area of land in 2018 than it had in 2009.
B. saw a greater expansion than Deschampsia antarctica did, increasing the area of land it covered by more than half.
C. showed a greater increase in the average size of individual plants than Deschampsia antarctica did.

D. covered land newly freed from ice at a rate 55% faster than that of Deschampsia antarctica.

ID: 95388117 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale
Choice B is the best answer because it most effectively uses data from the table to complete the comparison of how
Colobanthus quitensis benefited from warming temperatures with how Deschampsia antarctica benefited from them. The
table shows the land area covered by these two plant species at a site in Antarctica. According to the table, Colobanthus
quitensis increased the area it covered by 55% from 2009 to 2018, whereas Deschampsia antarctica increased the area it
covered by 28% during the same period. It therefore follows that Colobanthus quitensis saw a greater expansion than
Deschampsia antarctica did and that Colobanthus quitensis increased the area of land it covered by more than half.

Choice A is incorrect because according to the table, Deschampsia antarctica covered 1,230 square meters of land in 2009
and 1,576 square meters of land in 2018. Deschampsia antarctica therefore covered a larger, not a smaller, area of land in
2018 than in 2009. Moreover, there’s no information in the text or the table that suggests that one species of the plant
suppressed the other. Choice C is incorrect because it inaccurately describes the data in the table. The table shows the land
area covered by Colobanthus quitensis and Deschampsia antarctica and the percent increase in area covered by the two
species from 2009 to 2018, not the average size of individual plants belonging to the two species. The data in the table
therefore can't be used to make a comparison of the increase in individual plants’ average size. Choice D is incorrect
because the table shows the land area covered by Colobanthus quitensis and Deschampsia antarctica and the percent
increase in area covered by the two species from 2009 to 2018, not the rate at which the species increased the area they
covered. Moreover, there’s nothing in the table or the text that suggests that the areas covered by the two species were newly
freed from ice.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID 403fb4e4

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of rT.
Ideas Evidence

ID: 403fb4e4

Percentage of Ondo State
Small-Scale Farmers Who Are
Female, by Main Crop Grown

Female farmers
as a percentage of total

Ondo State region

@ cereals

G root crops
@ non-root vegetables

Geographer Adebayo Oluwole Eludoyin and his colleagues surveyed small-scale farmers in three locations in Ondo State,
Nigeria—which has mountainous terrain in the north, an urbanized center, and coastal terrain in the south—to learn more
about their practices, like the types of crops they mainly cultivated. In some regions, female farmers were found to be
especially prominent in the cultivation of specific types of crops and even constituted the majority of farmers who cultivated
those crops; for instance,

Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the example?

most of the farmers who mainly cultivated cereals and most of the farmers who mainly cultivated non-root vegetables in
A. south Ondo were women.

B. more women in central Ondo mainly cultivated root crops than mainly cultivated cereals.
C. most of the farmers who mainly cultivated non-root vegetables in north and south Ondo were women.

D. a relatively equal proportion of women across the three regions of Ondo mainly cultivated cereals.

ID: 403fb4e4 Answer

Correct Answer: C

Rationale

Choice C is the best answer because it uses data from the graph to effectively complete the example of Eludoyin and his
colleagues’ findings concerning female farmers in some regions of Ondo State, Nigeria. The graph presents values for the
percentage of Ondo State small-scale farmers who are female, by type of crop and region. The graph shows that of the
farmers mainly cultivating non-root vegetables, approximately 57% in north Ondo and approximately 54% in south Ondo are
female; in other words, most of those farmers are female, which exemplifies the idea that female farmers make up the
majority (more than half) of the farmers cultivating specific types of crops in some regions.

Choice A is incorrect because it inaccurately cites data from the graph: the graph shows that in south Ondo, most of the
farmers mainly cultivating non-root vegetables are women (approximately 54%), but that only about 35% (less than half) of
the farmers mainly cultivating cereals are women. Choice B is incorrect because it inaccurately cites data from the graph:
the graph shows that more women in central Ondo mainly cultivate cereals than mainly cultivate root crops (approximately
36% and 20%, respectively). Additionally, it doesn’t effectively complete the example because the graph shows that female
farmers don’t make up the majority (more than half) of the farmers for any type of crop in central Ondo. Choice D is incorrect
because it doesn’t effectively complete the example; it simply states that a relatively equal proportion of women across the
three regions mainly cultivate cereals, which doesn’t address the value for that proportion and thus doesn’t show that a
majority (more than half) of the farmers cultivating certain crops are female.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID 3091f805

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of goo
Ideas Evidence

ID: 3091f805

Ochre sea stars live in tidal pools along the shoreline of the Pacific Ocean. At night, they move to higher shore levels in
search of prey. But scientists Corey Garza and Carlos Robles noticed that ochre sea stars stayed at lower levels at night after
heavy rains. Garza and Robles hypothesized that a layer of fresh water formed by rainfall was a barrier to the sea stars. To
test their hypothesis, the scientists did an experiment. They placed some sea stars in a climbable tank of seawater and other
sea stars in a similar tank of seawater with a layer of fresh water on top. Then, the scientists watched the sea stars’ behavior
at night.

Which finding from the experiment, if true, would most directly support Garza and Robles’s hypothesis?

None of the sea stars climbed to the tops of the tanks, but sea stars in the tank with only seawater moved around the
A. bottom of the tank more than sea stars in the other tank did.

Sea stars in the tank with only seawater climbed to the top of the tank, but sea stars in the other tank stopped climbing
B. just below the layer of fresh water.

Both groups of sea stars climbed to the tops of the tanks, but sea stars in the tank with only seawater climbed more
C. slowly than sea stars in the other tank did.

Sea stars in the tank with only seawater mostly stayed near the bottom of the tank, but sea stars in the other tank
D. climbed into the layer of fresh water.

ID: 3091f805 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale
Choice B is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would support Garza and Robles’s hypothesis that a
layer of fresh water forms a barrier to ochre sea stars. The text explains that the sea stars tend to move to higher shore
levels at night in search of prey, but after a heavy rain, the sea stars stay at lower shore levels. Garza and Robles hypothesize
that rainfall results in a layer of fresh water that the sea stars don’t cross. To determine whether fresh water forms a barrier
to sea stars, Garza and Robles observed how sea stars behaved in a tank of only seawater and in a tank of seawater with a
layer of fresh water on top. If the sea stars climbed to the top of the tank with only seawater but stopped climbing just below
the layer of fresh water in the other tank, that would suggest that fresh water does indeed serve as a barrier to the sea stars,
thereby supporting Garza and Robles’s hypothesis.

Choice A is incorrect because finding that sea stars in the tank with only seawater moved around the bottom of the tank
more than sea stars in the other tank did but that none of the stars in either tank climbed to the top would be irrelevant to
Garza and Robles’s hypothesis. Such a finding would reveal nothing about whether fresh water serves as a barrier to sea
stars. Choice C is incorrect because finding that sea stars climbed to the top of both tanks would weaken, not support, Garza
and Robles’s hypothesis, since it would indicate that the layer of fresh water wasn’t a barrier to the sea stars. Choice D is
incorrect because finding that sea stars in the tank with only seawater mostly stayed near the bottom of the tank but sea
stars in the other tank climbed into the layer of fresh water wouldn't support Garza and Robles’s hypothesis. Instead, such a
finding would suggest that the layer of fresh water wasn’t a barrier to the sea stars, thereby weakening Garza and Robles’s
hypothesis.

Question Difficulty: Easy
Question ID 94c54577

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of rT.
Ideas Evidence

ID: 94054577

While attending school in New York City in the 1980s, Okwui Enwezor encountered few works by African artists in
exhibitions, despite New York’s reputation as one of the best places to view contemporary art from around the world.
According to an arts journalist, later in his career as a renowned curator and art historian, Enwezor sought to remedy this
deficiency, not by focusing solely on modern African artists, but by showing how their work fits into the larger context of
global modern art and art history.

Which finding, if true, would most directly support the journalist’s claim?

As curator of the Haus der Kunst in Munich, Germany, Enwezor organized a retrospective of Ghanaian sculptor El
Anatsui’s work entitled E/ Anatsui: Triumphant Scale, one of the largest art exhibitions devoted to a Black artist in Europe's
A. history.

In the exhibition Postwar: Art Between the Pacific and the Atlantic, 1945-1965, Enwezor and cocurator Katy Siegel
brought works by African artists such as Malangatana Ngwenya together with pieces by major figures from other
B. countries, like US artist Andy Warhol and Mexico's David Siqueiros.

Enwezor’s work as curator of the 2001 exhibition The Short Century: Independence and Liberation Movements in Africa,
1945-1994 showed how African movements for independence from European colonial powers following the Second
World War profoundly influenced work by African artists of the period, such as Kamala Ibrahim Ishaq and Thomas

C. Mukarobgwa.

Enwezor organized the exhibition In/sight: African Photographers, 1940 to the Present not to emphasize a particular
aesthetic trend but to demonstrate the broad range of ways in which African artists have approached the medium of
D. photography.

ID: 94¢54577 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale
Choice B is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would most directly support the arts journalist’s claim
about Enwezor’s work as a curator and art historian. In the text, the arts journalist asserts that Enwezor wished not just to
focus on modern African artists but also to show “how their work fits into the larger context of global modern art and art
history,” or how their work relates to artistic developments and work by other artists elsewhere in the world. The description
of Postwar: Art Between the Pacific and the Atlantic, 1945-1965 indicates that Enwezor and Siegel's exhibition brought works
by African artists together with works by artists from other countries, thus supporting the arts journalist's claim that Enwezor
sought to show works by African artists in a context of global modern art and art history.

Choice A is incorrect because it describes a retrospective that wouldn't support the arts journalist's claim that Enwezor
wanted to show how works by modern African artists fit into the larger context of global modern art and art history. The
description of E/ Anatsui: Triumphant Scale indicates that the retrospective focused only on the work of a single African
artist, El Anatsui. The description doesn’t suggest that the exhibition showed how El Anatsui’s works fit into a global artistic
context. Choice C is incorrect because it describes an exhibition that wouldn't support the arts journalist's claim that
Enwezor wanted to show how works by modern African artists relate to the larger context of global modern art and art
history. The description of The Short Century: Independence and Liberation Movements in Africa, 1945-1994 indicates that
the exhibition showed how African artists were influenced by movements for independence from European colonial powers
following the Second World War. Although this suggests that Enwezor intended the exhibition to place works by African
artists in a political context, it doesn’t indicate that the works were placed in a global artistic context. Choice D is incorrect
because it describes an exhibition that wouldn't support the arts journalist’s claim that Enwezor wanted to show how works
by modern African artists relate to the larger context of global modern art and art history. The description of In/sight: African
Photographers, 1940 to the Present indicates that the exhibition was intended to reveal the broad range of approaches taken
by African photographers, not that the exhibition showed how photography by African artists fits into a global artistic
context.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID ce4448b7

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Inferences
Ideas aan

ID: ce4448b7

Researchers recently found that disruptions to an enjoyable experience, like a short series of advertisements during a
television show, often increase viewers’ reported enjoyment. Suspecting that disruptions to an unpleasant experience would
have the opposite effect, the researchers had participants listen to construction noise for 30 minutes and anticipated that
those whose listening experience was frequently interrupted with short breaks of silence would thus

Which choice most logically completes the text?

A. find the disruptions more irritating as time went on.
B. rate the listening experience as more negative than those whose listening experience was uninterrupted.
C. rate the experience of listening to construction noise as lasting for less time than it actually lasted.

D. perceive the volume of the construction noise as growing softer over time.

ID: ce4448b7 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale

Choice B is the best answer. It most logically completes the text. The text tells us that disruptions to an enjoyable experience
increase viewers’ enjoyment. It also says that researchers suspect the opposite is true for disruptions to an unpleasant
experience. Thus, we can infer that the researchers expect to find that the interrupted unpleasant experience was worse for
listeners than the uninterrupted unpleasant experience.

Choice A is incorrect. It doesn’t logically complete the text. The text never makes any claims about how irritating the
disruptions themselves are perceived to be. Rather, the text says that pleasant experiences are perceived as more enjoyable
with interruptions, and that the opposite is suspected to be true of unpleasant experiences. Choice C is incorrect. It doesn't
logically complete the text. The text never makes any claims about how long any experience is perceived to be. Rather, the
text says that pleasant experiences are perceived as more enjoyable with interruptions, and that the opposite is suspected to
be true of unpleasant experiences. Choice D is incorrect. It doesn’t logically complete the text. The text never makes any
claims about how interruptions affect the perceived volume of the unpleasant or pleasant experience. Rather, the text says
that pleasant experiences are perceived as more enjoyable with interruptions, and that the opposite is suspected to be true
of unpleasant experiences.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID 60c6b64d

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of BBO
Ideas Evidence

ID: 60c6b64d

Male tungara frogs make complex calls to attract mates, but their calls also attract frog-biting midges, insects that feed on
the frogs’ blood. Researchers Ximena Bernal and Priyanka de Silva wondered if the calls alone are sufficient for midges to
locate the frogs or if midges use carbon dioxide emitted by frogs as an additional cue to their prey’s whereabouts, like
mosquitoes do. In an experiment, the researchers placed two midge traps in a tungara frog breeding area. One trap played
recordings of tungara frog calls and the other released carbon dioxide along with playing the calls. Bernal and de Silva
concluded that carbon dioxide does not serve as an additional cue to frog-biting midges.

Which finding from the experiment, if true, would most directly support Bernal and de Silva's conclusion?

Only a small number of midges were found in the traps, though the majority were found in the trap that played calls and
A. released carbon dioxide.

Midges entered the trap that released carbon dioxide and played calls only during or immediately after periods of carbon
B. dioxide release.

C. More midges were found in the trap that only played calls than in the trap that played calls and released carbon dioxide.

The trap that released carbon dioxide and played calls attracted few midges when carbon dioxide concentrations were
D. low but attracted many midges when carbon dioxide concentrations were high.

ID: 60c6b64d Answer

Correct Answer: C

Rationale
Choice C is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would most directly support the researchers’
conclusion that carbon dioxide does not serve as an additional cue to frog-biting midges regarding the location of male
tungara frogs. The text begins by stating that the mating call of the male tungara frogs also attracts frog-biting midges,
which prey on the frogs’ blood. Researchers Bernal and de Silva were curious if the mating calls were sufficient signals for
the midges to locate the frogs or if midges also used carbon dioxide emitted by the frogs to locate their prey. The text then
details the procedure the researchers used to investigate their question and summarizes their conclusion—that carbon
dioxide does not serve as an additional cue to the midges. Thus, if more midges were found in the researchers’ trap that only
played calls than in the trap that played calls and released carbon dioxide, it follows that the frog calls seem sufficient
without the carbon dioxide cue. This finding supports the researchers’ conclusion that carbon dioxide does not serve as an
additional cue to frog-biting midges.

Choice A is incorrect because finding that the majority of frog-biting midges were found in the traps that both played the
mating call and released carbon dioxide would present evidence that directly refutes the researchers’ conclusion—that
carbon dioxide does not serve as an additional cue to the frog-biting midges regarding the location of tungara frogs. Choice
B is incorrect because if the midges entered the trap that played calls and released carbon dioxide only during or
immediately after carbon dioxide was released, that would suggest that the midges used the carbon dioxide as a way to
locate their prey, a finding that would contradict the researchers’ conclusion that carbon dioxide was not an additional cue to
the midges. Choice D is incorrect because a trap attracting larger numbers of midges with high carbon dioxide
concentrations than a trap with low carbon dioxide concentrations suggests that carbon dioxide might serve as an additional
cue to the midges as to the location on the frogs, a finding contrary to the researchers’ conclusion.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID 1f3be847

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of BBO
Ideas Evidence

ID: 1f3be847

“Loon Point” is a 1912 poem by Amy Lowell. In the poem, which presents a nighttime scene on a body of water, Lowell
describes an element of nature as an active participant in the experience, writing,

Which quotation from “Loon Point” most effectively illustrates the claim?

A. “Through the water the moon writes her legends / In light, on the smooth, wet sand.”
B. “Softly the water ripples / Against the canoe’s curving side.”
C. “Or like the snow-white petals / Which drop from an overblown rose.”

D. “But the moon in her wayward beauty / Is ever and always the same.”

ID: 1f3be847 Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale

Choice A is the best answer because it most effectively illustrates the claim that Lowell describes an element of nature as an
active participant in the experience of a nighttime scene on a body of water. The quotation presents the image of the moon
shining on a body of water. However, instead of describing the moon in passive terms or simply stating that it reflects
through the water and onto the sandy shore, the quotation portrays the moon as being engaged in the humanlike action of
writing a legend. In other words, the moon is participating actively in the nighttime scene.

Choice B is incorrect. Although the quotation describes a nighttime scene on a body of water, the element of nature in these
lines—the waves—isn't portrayed as an active participant in an experience; instead, the waves merely ripple softly against a
canoe, as waves would normally do. Choice C is incorrect because the quotation doesn’t present a nighttime scene ona
body of water; instead, it describes petals falling from a rose. Choice D is incorrect. Although the quotation presents an
image of an element of nature—the moon—it doesn’t mention a body of water; moreover, it portrays the moon not as an
active participant in a scene but instead as static or unchanging (“ever and always the same’).

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID 7a1877be

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of rT.
Ideas Evidence

ID: 7a1877be

Nucleobase Concentrations from Murchison Meteorite and Soil Samples in Parts per Billion

Nucleobase | Murchison meteorite sample 1 | Murchison meteorite sample 2 | Murchison soil sample

Isoguanine 0.5 0.04 not detected

Purine 0.02 not detected

Adenine 15

Hypoxanthine 1 2

Employing high-performance liquid chromatography—a process that uses pressurized water to separate material into its
component molecules—astrochemist Yashiro Oba and colleagues analyzed two samples of the Murchison meteorite that
landed in Australia as well as soil from the landing zone of the meteorite to determine the concentrations of various organic
molecules. By comparing the relative concentrations of types of molecules known as nucleobases in the Murchison
meteorite with those in the soil, the team concluded that there is evidence that the nucleobases in the Murchison meteorite
formed in space and are not the result of contamination on Earth.

Which choice best describes data from the table that support the team’s conclusion?

A. lsoguanine and purine were detected in both meteorite samples but not in the soil sample.
B. Adenine and xanthine were detected in both of the meteorite samples and in the soil sample.
C. Hypoxanthine and purine were detected in both the Murchison meteorite sample 2 and in the soil sample.

D. Isoguanine and hypoxanthine were detected in the Murchison meteorite sample 1 but not in sample 2.

ID: 7a1877be Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale
Choice A is the best answer. The researchers concluded that the meteorite’s nucleobases weren't the result of soil
contamination. Presence of nucleobases in the meteorite and not in soil provides evidence that those nucleobases likely
didn’t come from the soil.

Choice B is incorrect. This choice doesn’t justify the conclusion. The researchers concluded that the meteorite’s nucleobases
weren't the result of soil contamination. If the nucleobases are present in both the soil and meteorite, then it’s possible that
these nucleobases came from the soil. Choice C is incorrect. This choice misreads the table. Purine was not detected in the
soil sample. Choice D is incorrect. This choice misreads the table. Both isoguanine and hypoxanthine were detected in both
Murchison meteorite samples.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID 11a9f635

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and BBO
Ideas Details

ID: 11a9f635

Paleontologists searching for signs of ancient life have found many fossilized specimens of prehistoric human ancestors,
including several from the Pleistocene era discovered in a geological formation in the Minatogawa quarry in Japan. However,
to study the emergence of the earliest multicellular organisms to appear on Earth, researchers must turn elsewhere, such as
to the Ediacaran geological formation at Mistaken Point in Canada. A UNESCO World Heritage Site, the 146-hectare reserve
contains more than 10,000 fossils that together document a critical moment in evolutionary history.

What does the text indicate about the geological formation at Mistaken Point?

It holds a greater number of fossils but from a smaller variety of species than the formation in the Minatogawa quarry
A. does.

B. It has provided evidence that the earliest human species may have emerged before the Pleistocene era.
C. It is widely considered by paleontologists to be the most valuable source of information about prehistoric life forms.

D. It contains specimens from an older time period than those found in the formation in the Minatogawa quarry.

ID: 11a9f635 Answer

Correct Answer: D

Rationale

Choice D is the best answer. The text says that the formation at Mistaken Point contains fossils of “the earliest multicellular
organisms,” which implies that these fossils are from an older time period than the fossils of “prehistoric human ancestors”
found in the Minatogawa quarry.

Choice A is incorrect. The text says that the formation at Mistake Point contains “more than 10,000 fossils,” but it doesn’t
compare this number to the number of fossils in the Minatogawa quarry. It also doesn't say anything about the variety of
species in either formation. Choice B is incorrect. The text says that the formation at Mistaken Point contains fossils of “the
earliest multicellular organisms,” but it never says that the site contains early human fossils too. Rather, the early human
fossils mentioned in the text were found in the formation at Minatogawa quarry. Choice C is incorrect. The text says that the
fossils at Mistaken Point “document a critical moment in evolutionary history,” but it never says that Mistaken Point is the
most valuable source of information about prehistoric life forms.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID 57485f5e

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and goo
Ideas Details

ID: 57485f5e

The following text is adapted from Johanna Spyri’s 1881 novel Heidi (translated by Elisabeth Stork in 1915). Eight-year-old
Heidi and her friend’s grandmother are looking at some illustrated books.

Heidi had come and was looking with wondering eyes at the splendid pictures in the large books, that Grandmama was
showing her. Suddenly she screamed aloud, for there on the picture she saw a peaceful flock grazing on a green
pasture. In the middle a shepherd was standing, leaning on his crook. The setting sun was shedding a golden light over
everything. With glowing eyes Heidi devoured the scene.

Which choice best states the main idea of the text?

A. Heidi is upset until she sees a serene image of a pasture in one of Grandmama’s books.
B. Heidi is delighted and fascinated by an image she sees in one of Grandmama’s books.
C. Heidi is initially frightened by an image in one of Grandmama’s books but quickly comes to appreciate its beauty.

Heidi is inspecting an image in one of Grandmama’s books because she has never seen a shepherd with his sheep
D. before.

ID: 57485f5e Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale

Choice B is the best answer because it most effectively states the main idea of the text, which is that Heidi is delighted and
fascinated by an image she sees in one of Grandmama’s books. In the text, Heidi screams upon first seeing the picture of the
green pasture. In another context, such a reaction might suggest fear, but here the reaction is followed by descriptions of an
image that’s peaceful rather than scary. The text goes on to describe Heidi’s eyes as “glowing” and states that she “devoured
the scene,” suggesting that the image delights and fascinates her so much that she wants to examine every detail. Together,
these descriptions suggest that Heidi is thrilled and intrigued by the image in the book.

Choice A is incorrect because there's nothing in the text to suggest that Heidi is upset before seeing the peaceful image of
the green pasture. Before Heidi sees that image, the text describes her as “looking with wondering eyes at the splendid
pictures” in the book, suggesting that Heidi is intrigued, not that she’s unhappy. Choice C is incorrect. Although Heidi
screams upon first seeing the image, the text's description of the image and Heidi’s other reactions to it suggest that she is
screaming with delight, not fear. The text describes the images in the book as “splendid” and the particular image that
causes her to scream as peaceful rather than frightening. It also describes Heidi's eyes as “glowing” and states that she
“devoured the scene,” suggesting that the image of the green pasture delights and fascinates her so much that she wants to
examine every detail. Choice D is incorrect because it’s unclear from the text whether Heidi has ever seen a shepherd with
his sheep before. The text merely suggests that she is delighted and fascinated by the image of the shepherd and his sheep.

Question Difficulty: Easy
Question ID a68fd3e7

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Inferences
Ideas aan

ID: a68fd3e7

Many of William Shakespeare's tragedies address broad themes that still appeal to today’s audiences. For instance, Romeo

and Juliet, which is set in the Italy of Shakespeare's time, tackles the themes of parents versus children and love versus hate,
and the play continues to be read and produced widely around the world. But understanding Shakespeare's so-called history
plays can require a knowledge of several centuries of English history. Consequently,

Which choice most logically completes the text?

A. many theatergoers and readers today are likely to find Shakespeare's history plays less engaging than the tragedies.
B. some of Shakespeare's tragedies are more relevant to today’s audiences than twentieth-century plays.
C. Romeo and Juliet is the most thematically accessible of all Shakespeare's tragedies.

D. experts in English history tend to prefer Shakespeare’s history plays to his other works.

ID: a68fd3e7 Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale

Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s discussion of the relative appeal of different kinds
of plays by Shakespeare to today’s audiences. According to the text, Shakespeare's tragedies address broad themes that
continue to appeal to today’s audiences. Indeed, the text suggests that these themes are timeless, as illustrated by the
example of Romeo and Juliet, which the text states is still read and widely performed despite being set in the Italy of
Shakespeare's time. In contrast, the text indicates that audiences and readers may need to be familiar with several centuries
of English history in order to understand Shakespeare's history plays. Because many theatergoers and readers are unlikely to
possess such extensive historical knowledge, it follows that they are likely to find Shakespeare's history plays less engaging
than his more accessible tragedies.

Choice B is incorrect because the text never introduces a comparison between Shakespeare's tragedies and twentieth-
century plays, only between Shakespeare's tragedies and his history plays. Since twentieth-century plays aren’t mentioned,
there’s no basis in the text for the idea that some of Shakespeare's tragedies are more relevant than twentieth-century plays
to today’s audiences. Choice C is incorrect. Although the text indicates that Romeo and Juliet is thematically accessible to
today’s audiences, it doesn’t suggest that Romeo and Juliet is more accessible than Shakespeare's other tragedies. Rather,
the text presents Romeo and Juliet as an example to support the idea that Shakespeare's tragedies hold continued appeal for
today’s readers and theatergoers. Choice D is incorrect. Although experts in English history would likely possess the
knowledge needed to understand Shakespeare's history plays, the text never mentions such experts or suggests that they
would enjoy the history plays more than Shakespeare’s other works.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID e677fa6c

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and BBO
Ideas Details

ID: e677fa6c

The following text is adapted from Edgar Allan Poe’s 1849 story “Landor’s Cottage.”

During a pedestrian trip last summer, through one or two of the river counties of New York, | found myself, as the day
declined, somewhat embarrassed about the road | was pursuing. The land undulated very remarkably; and my path, for
the last hour, had wound about and about so confusedly, in its effort to keep in the valleys, that | no longer knew in what
direction lay the sweet village of B——, where | had determined to stop for the night.

Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A. The narrator remembers a trip he took and admits to getting lost.
B. The narrator recalls fond memories of a journey that he took through some beautiful river counties.
C. The narrator describes what he saw during a long trip through a frequently visited location.

D. The narrator explains the difficulties he encountered on a trip and how he overcame them.

ID: e677fa6c Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale

Choice A is the best answer. The narrator is “embarrassed” about the route he took, which ends up leaving him lost and
confused about how to get to his destination for the evening.

Choice B is incorrect. This choice doesn’t match the passage. The narrator is embarrassed, rather than fond, and he doesn't
describe the beauty of the place. Choice C is incorrect. This choice doesn’t match the passage. We don't know from this
excerpt whether or not the narrator has visited this part of New York multiple times. Choice D is incorrect. This choice
doesn't match the passage. The narrator doesn't explain how he overcame being lost in this excerpt.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID bc7b1a04

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of rT.
Ideas Evidence

ID: bc7b1a04

Three Studies' Estimated Average Velocity of LMC

Researchers Study year | Estimated average velocity

Murai and Fujimoto 1980 344 km/s

Kallivayalil and colleagues 378 km/s

Gardiner and colleagues 297 km/s

In 2006, Nitya Kallivayalil and colleagues calculated the most accurate estimate yet of the average velocity (in kilometers per
second) of the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) galaxy. Before the 2006 study, estimates of the average velocity were low
enough for the LMC to maintain an orbit around the Milky Way galaxy, but according to an analysis by Gurtina Besla and
colleagues, the estimated velocity from the 2006 study is too high for the LMC to maintain such an orbit. Therefore, if Besla
and colleagues are correct, the maximum average velocity for the LMC that would allow it to maintain orbit around the Milky
Way is likely

Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?

A. above 344 km/s but below 378 km/s.
B. above 297 km/s but below 344 km/s.
C. above 378 km/s.

D. below 297 km/s.

ID: bec7b1a04 Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale
