Question ID f1bfbed3

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Inferences rT.
Ideas

ID: f1bfbed3

Marta Coll and colleagues’ 2010 Mediterranean Sea biodiversity census reported approximately 17,000 species, nearly
double the number reported in Carlo Bianchi and Carla Morri’s 2000 census~—a difference only partly attributable to the
description of new invertebrate species in the interim. Another factor is that the morphological variability of microorganisms
is poorly understood compared to that of vertebrates, invertebrates, plants, and algae, creating uncertainty about how to
evaluate microorganisms as species. Researchers’ decisions on such matters therefore can be highly consequential. Indeed,
the two censuses reported similar counts of vertebrate, plant, and algal species, suggesting that

Which choice most logically completes the text?

Coll and colleagues reported a much higher number of species than Bianchi and Morri did largely due to the inclusion of
A. invertebrate species that had not been described at the time of Bianchi and Morri’s census.

some differences observed in microorganisms may have been treated as variations within species by Bianchi and Morri
B. but treated as indicative of distinct species by Coll and colleagues.

Bianchi and Morri may have been less sensitive to the degree of morphological variation displayed within a typical
C. species of microorganism than Coll and colleagues were.

the absence of clarity regarding how to differentiate among species of microorganisms may have resulted in Coll and
D. colleagues underestimating the number of microorganism species.

ID: f1bfbed3 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale
Choice B is the best answer because it presents the conclusion that most logically completes the text's discussion of the
different counts of species in the Mediterranean Sea. The text states that Coll and colleagues reported almost double the
number of species that Bianchi and Morri reported in their study ten years earlier. According to the text, this difference can
only be partly attributed to new invertebrate species being described in the years between the two studies, which means
there must be an additional factor that made Coll and colleagues’ count so much higher than Bianchi and Morri’s count. The
text goes on to explain that factor: researchers have a relatively poor understanding of microorganisms’ morphological
variability, or the differences in microorganisms’ structure and form. This poor understanding makes it hard to classify
microorganisms by species and means that researchers’ decisions about classifying microorganisms can have a large effect
on the overall species counts that researchers report. Additionally, the text says that the two censuses reported similar
numbers of vertebrate, plant, and algal species, which means that the difference in overall species did not come from
differences in those categories. Given all this information, it most logically follows that Coll and colleagues may have treated
some of the differences among microorganisms as indicative of the microorganisms being different species, whereas
Bianchi and Morri treated those differences as variations within species, resulting in Coll and colleagues reporting many
more species than Bianchi and Morri did.

Choice A is incorrect because the text explicitly addresses this issue by stating that the description of new invertebrate
species in the years between the two studies can explain only part of the difference in the number of species reported by the
studies. The focus of the text is on explaining the difference between Coll and colleagues’ count and Bianchi and Morri’s
count that cannot be accounted for by the inclusion of invertebrate species that had not been described at the time of
Bianchi and Morri’s study. Choice C is incorrect because nothing in the text suggests that Bianchi and Morri may have been
less sensitive to how much the form and structure of microorganisms vary within the same species than Coll and colleagues
were. If Bianchi and Morri had been less sensitive to within-species variation than Coll and colleagues were, Bianchi and
Morri would likely have reported more species than Coll and colleagues did, since less sensitivity to within-species variation
would lead researchers to classify as different species microorganisms that more sensitive researchers would classify as
variations within the same species. The text indicates, however, that Bianchi and Morri reported far fewer species than Coll
and colleagues did; since the text also excludes other explanations for this difference, it suggests that in fact Bianchi and
Morri were more sensitive to within-species variation than Coll and colleagues were, leading Bianchi and Morri to report
fewer overall species. Choice D is incorrect because the text is focused on explaining why Coll and colleagues reported
many more species than Bianchi and Morri did, and an underestimate of the number of microorganism species by Coll and
colleagues would not explain that difference—it would suggest, in fact, that the difference in the number of species should
have been even larger.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID 87aa7bab

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and BBO
Ideas Details

ID: 87aa7bab

A common assumption among art historians is that the invention of photography in the mid-nineteenth century displaced the
painted portrait in the public consciousness. The diminishing popularity of the portrait miniature, which coincided with the
rise of photography, seems to support this claim. However, photography’s impact on the portrait miniature may be
overstated. Although records from art exhibitions in the Netherlands from 1820 to 1892 show a decrease in the number of
both full-sized and miniature portraits submitted, this trend was established before the invention of photography.

Based on the text, what can be concluded about the diminishing popularity of the portrait miniature in the nineteenth
century?

A. Factors other than the rise of photography may be more directly responsible for the portrait miniature’s decline.

Although portrait miniatures became less common than photographs, they were widely regarded as having more artistic
B. merit.

C. The popularity of the portrait miniature likely persisted for longer than art historians have assumed.

D. As demand for portrait miniatures decreased, portrait artists likely shifted their creative focus to photography.

ID: 87aa7bab Answer

Correct Answer: A

Rationale

Choice A is the best answer. The text says that the impact of photography on the portrait miniature might be "overstated," as
some records show a decrease in the number of portrait miniatures before the invention of photography. From this, we can
conclude that factors other than the rise of photography may be more directly responsible for the portrait miniature’s decline.

Choice B is incorrect. The text never discusses the "artistic merit" of either art form. Choice C is incorrect. The text never
suggests that the portrait miniature was popular for longer than historians thought—if anything, it suggests that the portrait
miniature started losing its popularity earlier than historians thought. Choice D is incorrect. The text never suggests that
portrait painters shifted to become photographers.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID d73a908a

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and BBO
Ideas Details

ID: d73a908a

Believing that living in an impractical space can heighten awareness and even improve health, conceptual artists Madeline
Gins and Shusaku Arakawa designed an apartment building in Japan to be more fanciful than functional. A kitchen counter
is chest-high on one side and knee-high on the other; a ceiling has a door to nowhere. The effect is disorienting but
invigorating: after four years there, filmmaker Nobu Yamaoka reported significant health benefits.

Which choice best states the main idea of the text?

Although inhabiting a home surrounded by fanciful features such as those designed by Gins and Arakawa can be
A. rejuvenating, it is unsustainable.

Designing disorienting spaces like those in the Gins and Arakawa building is the most effective way to create a physically
B. stimulating environment.

C. As a filmmaker, Yamaoka has long supported the designs of conceptual artists such as Gins and Arakawa.

Although impractical, the design of the apartment building by Gins and Arakawa may improve the well-being of the
D. building's residents.

ID: d73a908a Answer

Correct Answer: D

Rationale

Choice D is the best answer because it most accurately states the main idea of the text. According to the text, conceptual
artists Gins and Arakawa have designed an apartment building that is disorienting because of several unconventional
elements, such as uneven kitchen counters and “a door to nowhere.” The text goes on to suggest that there may be benefits
to this kind of design because filmmaker Yamaoka lived in the apartment building for four years and reported health
benefits. Thus, although the design is impractical, it may improve the well-being of the apartment building's residents.

Choice A is incorrect. Although the text mentions that Yamaoka lived in the apartment for four years, it doesn’t address how
long someone can beneficially live in a home surrounded by fanciful features or whether doing so can be sustained. Choice
B is incorrect. Although the text mentions the potential benefits of living in a home with disorienting design features, it
doesn't suggest that this is the most effective method to create a physically stimulating environment. Choice C is incorrect
because the text refers to Yamaoka to support the claim that Gins and Arakawa’s apartment building design may be
beneficial, but the text doesn't indicate that Yamaoka supports the designs of other conceptual artists.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID d748c3fd

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Inferences
Ideas Be

ID: d748c3fd

In her 2021 article “Throwaway History: Towards a Historiography of Ephemera,” scholar Anne Garner discusses John
Johnson (1882-1956), a devoted collector of items intended to be discarded, including bus tickets and campaign
pamphlets. Johnson recognized that scholarly institutions considered his expansive collection of ephemera to be worthless
—indeed, it wasn’t until 1968, after Johnson's death, that Oxford University’s Bodleian Library acquired the collection, having
grasped the items’ potential value to historians and other researchers. Hence, the example of Johnson serves to____

Which choice most logically completes the text?

demonstrate the difficulties faced by contemporary historians in conducting research at the Bodleian Library without
A. access to ephemera.

represent the challenge of incorporating examples of ephemera into the collections of libraries and other scholarly
B. institutions.

lend support to arguments by historians and other researchers who continue to assert that ephemera holds no value for
C. scholars.

illustrate both the relatively low scholarly regard in which ephemera was once held and the later recognition of
D. ephemera’s possible utility.

ID: d748c3fd Answer

Correct Answer: D

Rationale

Choice D is the best answer. Johnson collected “ephemera,” or things that are meant to be thrown away. Scholars thought
his collection was worthless to them, then later realized that it was potentially valuable. This suggests that scholars went
from disregarding ephemera to recognizing their usefulness.

Choice A is incorrect. This inference isn’t supported. The text tells us that the Bodleian Library acquired Johnson's large
collection of ephemera back in 1968, so we can assume that contemporary historians conducting research there do have
access to that collection. Choice B is incorrect. This inference isn’t supported. The text tells us that “Oxford University’s
Bodleian Library acquired the collection,” but it never suggests that it was a challenge to do so. Choice C is incorrect. This
inference isn’t supported. The text actually suggests the opposite: the example of Johnson’s collection lends support to
arguments that ephemera does hold value for scholars.

Question Difficulty: Medium
Question ID a15b3219

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Command of rT.
Ideas Evidence

ID: a15b3219

Municipalities’ Responses to Inquiri
about Potential Incentives for Firn

1,300
1,200
1,100
1,000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100

)

Number of municipalities

G announcement before election
M@ announcement after election

In the United States, firms often seek incentives from municipal governments to expand to those municipalities. A team of
political scientists hypothesized that municipalities are much more likely to respond to firms and offer incentives if
expansions can be announced in time to benefit local elected officials than if they can’t. The team contacted officials in
thousands of municipalities, inquiring about incentives for a firm looking to expand and indicating that the firm would
announce its expansion on a date either just before or just after the next election.

Which choice best describes data from the graph that weaken the team’s hypothesis?

A large majority of the municipalities that received an inquiry mentioning plans for an announcement before the next
A. election didn’t respond to the inquiry.

The proportion of municipalities that responded to the inquiry or offered incentives didn’t substantially differ across the
B. announcement timing conditions.
Only around half the municipalities that responded to inquiries mentioning plans for an announcement before the next
C. election offered incentives.

Of the municipalities that received an inquiry mentioning plans for an announcement date after the next election, more
D. than 1,200 didn’t respond and only around 100 offered incentives.

ID: a15b3219 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale

Choice B is the best answer. The lighter bars show what happened when the announcement was to come before the
election, and the darker bars show what happened when the announcement was to come after the election. For all three of
the outcomes, the light and dark bars are virtually the same, demonstrating that the announcement timing didn’t actually
make a difference.

Choice A is incorrect. This accurately describes some data from the graph, but it doesn’t weaken the hypothesis. It doesn't
include the “announcement after election” data for comparison. Choice C is incorrect. This accurately describes some data
from the graph, but it doesn’t weaken the hypothesis. It doesn’t include the “announcement after election” data for
comparison. Choice D is incorrect. This accurately describes some data from the graph, but it doesn’t weaken the
hypothesis. It doesn’t include the “announcement before election” data for comparison.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID ed314256

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and rT.
Ideas Details

ID: ed314256

The most recent iteration of the immersive theater experience Sleep No More, which premiered in New York City in 2011,
transforms its performance space—a five-story warehouse—into a 1930s-era hotel. Audience members, who wander through
the labyrinthine venue at their own pace and follow the actors as they play out simultaneous, interweaving narrative loops,
confront the impossibility of experiencing the production in its entirety. The play’s refusal of narrative coherence thus hinges
on the sense of spatial fragmentation that the venue’s immense and intricate layout generates.

What does the text most strongly suggest about Sleep No More's use of its performance space?

The choice of a New York City venue likely enabled the play's creators to experiment with the use of theatrical space in a
A. way that venues from earlier productions could not.

Audience members likely find the experience of the play disappointing because they generally cannot make their way
B. through the entire venue.

The production’s dependence on a particular performance environment would likely make it difficult to reproduce exactly
C. in a different theatrical space.

Audience members who navigate the space according to a recommended itinerary will likely have a better grasp of the
D. play’s narrative than audience members who depart from that itinerary.

ID: ed314256 Answer

Correct Answer: C

Rationale

Choice C is the best answer. The text says that the production's use of its large, winding space has a very specific effect on
the audience. Given that the space itself is so important to creating this effect, it would be difficult to reproduce the
production in a different space.

Choice A is incorrect. The fact that the venue is in New York City isn’t connected to the experimental nature of the
performance. It’s the size of the venue, not its location in New York, that affects the theatrical experience. Choice B is
incorrect. The text never suggests that audience members are disappointed because they can’t see the entire production. In
fact, it suggests that that’s an important part of the experience. Choice D is incorrect. The text doesn’t mention a
recommended itinerary for audience members.

Question Difficulty: Hard
Question ID 8c1be131

Assessment Test Domain Skill Difficulty
SAT Reading and Writing Information and Central Ideas and BBO
Ideas Details

ID: 8c1be131

During the World War II era, some Mexican American women adopted a striking new look called pachuca style. They wore
altered men’s jackets or zoot suits (wide-legged, long-coated suits) and dramatic makeup, and they combed their hair into
high, rounded shapes. Some people criticized pachuca style, saying it was dangerous and women should dress traditionally.
But historians see things differently. They see pachuca style as a form of rebellion against the era’s rigid social expectations
for women. They say that it showed a desire for self-expression and freedom on the part of women who adopted the style.

According to the text, how do historians view pachuca style?

They think that pachuca style was such a popular trend that it continues to influence fashion in the United States to the
A. present day.

They think that pachuca style was a way for some Mexican American women to express themselves and resist strict
B. social expectations.

They think that pachuca style was celebrated because it enabled some Mexican American women to show their support
C. for the United States during World War II.

They think that pachuca style was similar to other fashion trends that different groups of women adopted in the same
D. period.

ID: 8c1be131 Answer

Correct Answer: B

Rationale

Choice B is the best answer because it presents a statement about how historians view pachuca style that is supported by
the text. The text first describes the distinctive pachuca style of dress adopted by some Mexican American women during
World War Il, saying that some criticized it and asserted that women should dress traditionally. The text then goes on to
contrast this position with that of historians, who "see things differently": according to these historians, the pachuca style
showed a wish for freedom and self-expression, and it acted as a kind of rebellion against what society expected of women
at the time. Therefore, according to the text, historians think that the pachuca style was a way for Mexican women to express
themselves and resist strict social expectations.

Choice A is incorrect because the text explicitly describes the pachuca style as a distinctive look adopted during the World
War Il era. It does not indicate that the pachuca style influences fashion in the United States in the present day. Choice C is
incorrect because the text does not indicate that Mexican American women wore the pachuca style to show support for the
United States during World War Il; rather, the style was a means of self-expression and rebellion against social expectations.
Choice D is incorrect because the text does not compare the pachuca style to other fashion trends: the pachuca style is the
only style mentioned.

Question Difficulty: Medium
